Hey folks! John Thompson Spring Framework
Guru. So as my students go through the
course, a lot of times, they run into
problems. Something that they did and
don't understand and can't find a way
around, then they reach out to me and ask
me for help. And I have a student that
ran into a problem today and gave me a
the error message but not enough detail
for me to figure out what's going on. So
I asked him to upload his project to
GitHub and let me take a look at that
way so I can see the complete picture
and troubleshoot this. So what I'm going
to step you through today is
troubleshooting this. He's taking my
Spring Core course. He's working through
things and he's having problems with
beans getting wired up and I'm not sure
why. I have not looked at the
code yet. He's just shared the repository
with me. And in this video, we're going to go
onto GitHub.
I'll fork it into to my GitHub account,
download it, we'll open it up in IntelliJ,
take it, take a look at it,
reproduce the error and troubleshoot it
from there. So I I honestly have no idea
what's going on. I have not looked at
this code at all. He is following a
project in my course, that's on the
Spring Framework, where we build an
e-commerce like site, and I'm not sure
where he's at in the course right now.
There's a lot of variables at play of
what could be wrong. But then, load it up
and take a look and see if we can figure
out what's going on with this. And PS, I
want to add to this. What you're about to
see is completely uncensored unedited me
fumbling through code toggling back and
forth on different things and I'm
showing you my troubleshooting process
so I do get into some evils like cut and
paste and cheating from off my own
project to see what I implemented so
don't judge and enjoy this raw
uncensored look at me troubleshooting a
student's project.
Okay so I've asked the student to upload
this project to GitHub. And the first
thing I'm going to do is I'm going to go
in and fork it to my own repository. And
this gives me a chance to come in and
clone it. I'm going to go ahead and clone
this. Copy that over and come over here,
git clone, paste in that URL, so that is
there now. Let's take a quick look at it.
So the projects down there. So what I
want to do now is jump over to IntelliJ
and get that project into IntelliJ and
we'll start taking a look at it. So I'm
going to come up here and say new
project from existing sources. And this
is the guy that we want. So I'm going to
click OK. It's a Maven project. Click Next
and leave all the defaults here. I'm not
too worried about that. And I'm doing
some testing with artifactory for my
DevOps course. I do not want that active.
So that's going to come through. I need
to select a JDK. I'm running the -40 JDK.
I'm out of date. They're up to - one one
one right now so I need to get that
fixed up. My own oversight on my
personal system. So now the projects
coming up.
IntelliJ is telling me about... that went away.
So IntelliJ was complaining about the
VCS not being there. Version control
system being git. And let's go in and
run this and see what's going on. So I'm
just going to right click. And IntelliJ
say run him. It's going to run the Spring
Boot application and let's take a look
see what he's unhappy about.
Alright, we blew up. So I'm trying to find this daoAuthentication
Provider. It cannot. So a qualifier daoAuthenticationProvider not being found
for some reason. So what is that supposed
to be? It's triggering down here. And this
guy is failing to get wired up. Take a
little closer at this. And sometimes the
errors cascade. Let's scroll over and they
affectionately call it blowing it up
because when Java pops like this, there's
quite a bit going on. So ultimately, I
can't find UserDetailService. So that
that's core problem. So we're
going to take a look here at services. So
this is the service. This is the
interface that implements. This looks
like his implementation and he's doing a
service. And let's see here, I'm going to
springdatajpa. Let's double check that.
I didn't even look at the active profile
so I can use setting that active and to
double, just a double check, let's take a
look at the top of stack trace here.
Somewhere in the chatter, we can see the
active profiles. You should be able to
see them. Oh there we are. Overlooked it.
So that is infact being set. So that's
good.
And I am going to guess. Let's take a
quick look at this.
These are detailsService. So that
should get wired up by type so, for some
reason, he's not finding that. Copy
this and see if this makes a difference. So
what's happening is this bean is going to
get a name of UserServiceImpl and I
would expect it to get wired up by typo.
That doesn't seem happening. So I'm going to
give an explicit name of userService.
And see if that gets it going.
Still not happy here. No qualifying typo. UserDetailsService. So I was
looking at userService. So that was
mistaken my part. So let's go back and
look at this closer. UserDetailsService.
Click in on this. Where do you live?
ahahaha... So that's the problem. So UserDetailsService that is a interface
within where we have Spring Security
Core. Now I can't remember what I did
in the course for this, to be honest.
Let's take a look at what we're doing
here. So that makes sense now. The UserDetailsService is not being wired up.
I'm going to cheat and look see what I did
in this project. So I have the source
code that the problem is I wrote this
months ago.
So UserDetailsService. Taking a look through here. Trying to see how I implemented
that. So this UserDetailsService and
copy that and see where I implemented
that.
So I provided this implementation of him.
Where did I put you? Under security.
So this is what he needs to implement and
it looks like he missed that. So services
security. Let's take a look at that. I'm going to
copy this guy over. Guessing you did not
implement it. Take a quick look here.
Nobody did not implement that. So
that's the problem. We're missing that
service implementation and that that's
easy enough to add. I'm just going to be
consistent with what I did in the course.
And I put him in services security. So
let's jump over here. Package.
And I am totally cheating here. Assuming
that we can cut and paste everything and
life will be good.
And as userService is not implementing the
find user by name, so that's important, so
I'm going to steal shamelessly for my
other project. Just double check that. In
this little Spring Data JPA stuff so we
just need to implement that guy. Now that
should work. So he's happy now
and the last thing I need to do is come
back over here. And it's important to
name this userDetailsService so that
gets picked up. And let's try running
this now. Now that we have an
implementation of it, life should be
happy.
And what I do rather should implement
UserDetailsService.
Change the interface. My mistake here. I forget what I'm doing here. So come in
maybe, I just want to do.
Alright, double-check this. So user repository. You need to modify this as
well. So to add in the findByUserName and that this is a Spring Data
JPA,
allows you to dynamically add those. And
I come into the repository. What am i
doing?
Where would we add on this? Spring Data JPA.
That's a guy. Where did I put this guy in?
My mistake, looking at the wrong package.
So repo, repositories. Let's see what
he's got going on here. There's my
mistake here again. Double check that.
UserRepository extends CrudRepository.
Exactly what we want. Okay so
we have toUserServiceImpl implements gets all the userRepository returns by
back, findByUserName.
Now let's see if we can run this guy.
Converter. Where were you?
So we need to implement this Converter
one more problem. And this is an
important Converter because we're
converting over to the Spring Data or
Spring Security User. Make sure that's
the right one. userToUserDetails.
We don't have a converters class or
package so I'm going to add that. What did I
call that class? I just want to be
consistent with what I did in that. So I
usually name the class object to target
object.
It's going to grab this little guy here.
Shamelessly cut and paste. Do not try
this at home. Cut and paste will get you
in trouble. Just a couple things here. Put
this into security.
So this is another interfaces utilized by
Spring Security and we need to
provide an implementation of it.
Yeah get him imported.
So our user object is wrong also. Aren't
you happy there.
I'm going to grab the.. import the wrong user.
It's got a couple naming conventions
different there for me, so it's missing a
label. So I am going to go steal my
definition.
So my User is a little bit different
than his. So I'm going to implement that
for for him completely. I am again
stealing shamelessly from the project I
already did. His User is here, so we want
to replace this. getEnabled and role
is a little bit different. So let's see
what he did there. There's a role. We got
a couple other domain objects not there.
And that the problem is he's working
out of branch. I'm not quite sure where
he's at and in the course, so I have some
objects that are created later in the
course that aren't there yet. But let's
go ahead and implement these also.
We need this class.
We're missing Cart also and I know I'm
positive he adds that later. So I'm going
to comment that out for now.
Not the prettiest thing I'm doing here
but I'm just trying to get this through
this form. Let's see if this runs now. No
property found userName user. So this is
getting thrown out by the UserRepository. findByUserName. So what did
we change here? So it's saying, it's not
finding a property userName. I have user
name here.
Okay so it's case difference. username
versus userName. So let's take a closer
look at this. There was the problem. So
his implementation is username all
lowercase, and we're going to need to to
fix it here. So that's why that was
unhappy. So minor differences between
what he implemented and what I had
implemented. Let's take a see if we can
run happily now. Of course, we blew up
something there. That's dependent. Try it one more time.
Luckily Java strongly typed and the
compiler caught that little error for
us. It looks like we are up and running
now. So a couple things that were wrong
from what we saw and let me recap what
was going on there. I moved around quite
a bit and wrongly cut and paste code
from the project I had already
established. So that's my bad. Don't do
that at home. So do not cut and paste. You
know am a hypocrite for saying that. So
what was going on is we were
implementing Spring Security in the
course, and kind of where's this
configuration or this all-star about fit.
So the SpringSecConfig is going
to be looking for UserDetailsService.
And the UserDetailsService is a Spring
Security interface that we need to
implement. So we had to provide an
implementation of that UserDetailsService. So here's my implementation of
that. Providing that and UserDetailsImpl. That actually ran though.
I thought, double check my Impl of it
because I thought UserDetailsImpl
would need to be a component. Double
check that, as I go through this. Okay, must
be declaring that elsewhere. So that's
got to be declared in the configuration.
You guys seen. So this gets wired in and
that's an interface and that was
the problem you know this interface
was not implemented. So when you're
providing a daoAuthenticationProvider for Spring Security, you're
expected to provide an implementation of
the UserDetailsService, which
implements that, and then, the next
interface you need to implement is also
UserDetails. And what this does is a
couple common interfaces that you can
implement. We had to add a converter to
go from our User JPA type to the User
Details type that Spring Security wants.
So it allows us to do the custom mapping
which happens in that map converter
object that we added. So what this does,
it takes our User, which is a our JPA
object domain object and converts it
over to a UserDetails object. And this object again implements an
interface provided by Spring Security so
that we can map our JPA hard type
to this type and then Spring Security
happily works with that. Okay, I've made
all the changes and the last thing I
want to do is come in and get these
committed up to GitHub. So what I'm going
to do is come in here Git, commit
directory,
and provided... commit and push.  I'm
going to go ahead and ignore the warning
from IntelliJ. And we are pushing up
there. So you need to give it my password.
That is successful and I'm going to jump over
here, so that is done there. And what
I want to do is let him know about it. So
I'll give him a pull request.
And I'm going to email him what's going on,
after I record this video. And that is
done. So now, he's going to get a pull
request and see my code changes of what
I implemented. And that's my dog chickens
said, Thank You Jake. He'll be able to see
a working copy. Okay, so what happened
there I can see how he messed up what
was happening. The UserService and User
DetailsService very very similar naming
conventions and I overlooked it
initially when I was looking at you
could see that in in the preceding video
until I went oh UserDetailsServices. So
I came into this code and because I
wrote this over a year ago, this for the
software for this course so I forgot
what I'd done and went in and found that
what he had not implemented was the User
DetailsService and it's how Spring
Security works when we're setting up a
DaoAuthenticationProvider for Spring
Security. Spring Security provides a
couple of interfaces that we have to
provide implementations for, that allows
us to use a DaoAuthenticationProvider and go out and get the data and
then map it backend Spring Security
yet. I actually like the way the guy in
implemented. It's pretty slick and very
versatile to use, but when you're working
with Spring Security in the Spring
Framework you have to provide those
implementations which was not provided
here and that's why things were blowing
up because he was starting up and we
were asking for the UserDetails
Service. And there wasn't one provided.
And that's what we essentially did is to
provide that implementation so Spring
Security could start working.